---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 85
description: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 85
category:
  - Swift
tag: 
  - crashcourse
  - paul-hudson
  - swift
  - swiftui
  - hacking-with-swift

  - xcode
  - appstore
head:
  - - meta:
    - property: og:title
      content: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 85
    - property: og:description
      content: Day 85
    - property: og:url
      content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift/100-days-of-swiftui/85.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

[[toc]]

---

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI - Day 85",
  "desc": "Project 16, part 7",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/100/swiftui/85",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon.svg",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

## Project 16, part 7

The British mathematician Isaac Newton once said, “if I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of giants.” That’s a pretty humble view to take for someone who is one of the most influential scientists of all time!

I think the same is very much true of working with Apple’s APIs. Could I have written Create ML myself? Or UIKit? Or MapKit, or Core Image, or UserNotifications? Maybe _one_ of them, and perhaps if I had a lot of help _two_ of them, but it’s pretty unlikely.

Fortunately, I don’t need to, and neither do you: Apple’s vast collection of APIs means we too are standing on the shoulders of giants. Even things like handling dates well is a huge amount of work, but it’s something we don’t need to worry about because Apple already solved it for us.

So, seize this amazing opportunity! Build something great that combines two, three, or more frameworks and then add your own customizations on top. It’s those final steps that really set your app apart from the pack, and where you add your own value.

__Today you should work through the wrap up chapter for project 16, complete its review, then work through all three of its challenges.__

### Hot Prospects: Wrap up

::: details Hot Prospects: Wrap up

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI - 85 - Hot Prospects: Wrap up",
  "desc": "Hot Prospects: Wrap up",
  "link": "https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/hot-prospects-wrap-up",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon.svg",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

This was our largest project yet, but the end result is another really useful app that could easily form the starting point for a real conference. Along the way we also learned about custom environment objects, `TabView`, `Result`, image interpolation, context menus, local notifications, Swift package dependencies, and so much more – it’s been packed!

We’ve explored several of Apple’s other frameworks now – Core ML, MapKit, Core Image, and now UserNotifications – so I hope you’re getting a sense of just how much we can build just by relying on all the work Apple has already done for us.

#### Review what you learned

Anyone can sit through a tutorial, but it takes actual work to remember what was taught. It’s my job to make sure you take as much from these tutorials as possible, so I’ve prepared a short review to help you check your learning.

[Click here to review what you learned in this project.][hot-prospects]

#### Challenge

One of the best ways to learn is to write your own code as often as possible, so here are three ways you should try extending this app to make sure you fully understand what’s going on.

1. Add an icon to the “Everyone” screen showing whether a prospect was contacted or not.
2. Add an editing screen, so users can adjust the name and email address of someone they scanned previously. (__Tip__: Use the simple form of `NavigationLink` rather than `navigationDestination()`, to avoid your list selection code confusing the navigation link.)
3. All users to customize the way contacted are sorted – by name or by most recent.

:::

::: info Hot Prospects: Wrap up - Additional

- [Review for Project 16: Hot Prospects][hot-prospects]

:::

---



[hot-prospects]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/ios-swiftui/hot-prospects