---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 92
description: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 92
category:
  - 🕊️Swift
tag: 
  - crashcourse
  - paul-hudson
  - swift
  - swiftui
  - hacking-with-swift
  - xcode
  - appstore
head:
  - - meta:
    - property: og:title
      content: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 92
    - property: og:description
      content: Day 92
    - property: og:url
      content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift/100-days-of-swiftui/92.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI – Day 92",
  "desc": "Project 18, part 1",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/100/swiftui/92",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

## Project 18, part 1

In our final technique project for these 100 days, we’ll be looking at how SwiftUI handles layout and geometry. Yes, I realize you might have expected this kind of thing to be covered much earlier, but one of the great things about SwiftUI is that it does so much work for us – that this kind of tutorial appears so late in this series is testament to how good SwiftUI’s standard layout is.

Randall Munroe, author of the xkcd comic, once said “if you really hate someone, teach them to recognize bad kerning.” If you weren’t already aware, kerning is the spacing between letters, and _bad_ kerning is surprisingly common – once you learn to spot it, you realize it’s everywhere.

Today you’re going to look at _alignment_, and this is another thing that is hard to ignore when you know about it. Sure, it’s easy to spot when one thing is centered and another thing isn’t, but what if two things are aligned to slightly different leading edges? It’s invisible until you know about, but when you _start_ noticing it’s impossible to stop!

__Today you have five topics to work through, in which you’ll learn about the rules of layout, alignment, custom guides, and more.__

### Layout and geometry: Introduction

::: details Layout and geometry: Introduction

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI - Day 92 - Layout and geometry: Introduction",
  "desc": "Layout and geometry: Introduction",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/layout-and-geometry-introduction",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

In this technique project we’re going to explore how SwiftUI handles layout. Some of these things have been explained a little already, some of them you might have figured out yourself, but many more are things you might just have taken for granted to this point, so I hope a detailed exploration will really shed some light on how SwiftUI works.

Along the way you’ll also learn about creating more advanced layout alignments, building special effects using `GeometryReader`, and more – some real power features that I know you’ll be keen to deploy in your own apps.

Go ahead and create a new iOS project using the App template, naming it LayoutAndGeometry. You’ll need an image in your asset catalog in order to follow the chapter on custom alignment guides, but it can be anything you want – it’s just a placeholder really.

:::

### How layout works in SwiftUI

::: details How layout works in SwiftUI

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI - Day 92 - How layout works in SwiftUI",
  "desc": "How layout works in SwiftUI",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/how-layout-works-in-swiftui",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

<VidStack src="youtube/04fzFk367Dg"/>

All SwiftUI layout happens in three simple steps, and understanding these steps is the key to getting great layouts every time. The steps are:

1. A parent view proposes a size for its child.
2. Based on that information, the child then chooses its own size and the parent _must_ respect that choice.
3. The parent then positions the child in its coordinate space.

Behind the scenes, SwiftUI performs a fourth step: although it _stores_ positions and sizes as floating-point numbers, when it comes to rendering SwiftUI rounds off any pixels to their nearest values so our graphics remain sharp.

Those three rules might seem simple, but they allow us to create hugely complicated layouts where every view decides how and when it resizes without the parent having to get involved.

To demonstrate these rules in action, I’d like you to use a simple `Text` with a `background()` modifier, like this:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .background(.red)
    }
}
```

You’ll see the background color sits tightly around the text itself – it takes up only enough space to fit the content we provided.

Now, think about this question: _how big is `ContentView`_? As you can see, the body of `ContentView` – the thing that it renders – is some text with a background color. And so the size of `ContentView` is exactly and always the size of its body, no more and no less. This is called being _layout neutral_: `ContentView` doesn’t have any size of its own, and instead happily adjusts to fit whatever size is needed.

Back in project 3 I explained to you that when you apply a modifier to a view we actually get back a new view type called `ModifiedContent`, which stores both our original view and its modifier. This means when we apply a modifier, the actual view that goes into the hierarchy is the modified view, not the original one.

In our simple `background()` example, that means the top-level view inside `ContentView` is the background, and inside _that_ is the text. Backgrounds are layout neutral just like `ContentView`, so it will just pass on any layout information as needed – you can end up with a chain of layout information being passed around until a definitive answer comes back.

If we put this into the three-step layout system, we end up with a conversation a bit like this:

- SwiftUI: “Hey, ContentView, you have the whole screen to yourself – how much of it do you need?” (Parent view proposes a size)
- ContentView: “I don’t care; I’m layout neutral. Let me ask _my child_: hey, background, you have the whole screen to yourself – how much of it do you need?” (Parent view proposes a size)
- Background: “I also don’t care; I’m layout neutral too. Let me ask my child: hey, text, you can have the whole screen to yourself – how much of it do you need?” (Parent view proposes a size)
- Text: “Well, I have the letters ‘Hello, World’ in the default font, so I need exactly X pixels width by Y pixels height. I don’t need the whole screen, just that.” (Child chooses its size.)
- Background: “Got it. Hey, ContentView: I need X by Y pixels, please.”
- ContentView: “Right on. Hey, SwiftUI: I need X by Y pixels.”
- SwiftUI: “Nice. Well, that leaves lots of space, so I’m going to put you at your size in the center.” (Parent positions the child in its coordinate space.)

__So, when we say `Text("Hello, World!").background(.red)`, the text view becomes a child of its background.__ SwiftUI effectively works its way from bottom to top when it comes to a view and its modifiers.

Now consider this layout:

```swift
Text("Hello, World!")
    .padding(20)
    .background(.red)
```

This time the conversation is more complicated: `padding()` no longer offers all its space to its child, because it needs to subtract 20 points from each side to make sure there’s enough space for the padding. Then, when the answer comes back from the text view, `padding()` _adds_ 20 points on each side to pad it out, as requested.

So, it’s more like this:

- SwiftUI: You can have the whole screen, how much of it do you need, ContentView?
- ContentView: You can have the whole screen, how much of it do you need, background?
- Background: You can have the whole screen, how much of it do you need, padding?
- Padding: You can have the whole screen minus 20 points on each side, how much of it do you need, text?
- Text: I need X by Y.
- Padding: I need X by Y plus 20 points on each side.
- Background: I need X by Y plus 20 points on each side.
- ContentView: I need X by Y plus 20 points on each side.
- SwiftUI: OK; I’ll center you.

If you remember, the order of our modifiers matters. That is, this code:

```swift
Text("Hello, World!")
    .padding()
    .background(.red)
```

And this code:

```swift
Text("Hello, World!")
    .background(.red)
    .padding()
```

Yield two different results. Hopefully now you can see why: `background()` is layout neutral, so it determines how much space _it_ needs by asking its child how much space it needs and using that same value. If the child of `background()` is the text view then the background will fit snugly around the text, but if the child is `padding()` then it receive back the adjusted values that including the padding amount.

There are two interesting side effects that come as a result of these layout rules.

First, if your view hierarchy is wholly layout neutral, then it will automatically take up all available space. For example, shapes and colors are layout neutral, so if your view contains a color and nothing else it will automatically fill the screen like this:

```swift
var body: some View {
    Color.red
}
```

Remember, `Color.red` is a view in its own right, but because it is layout neutral it can be drawn at any size. When we used it inside `background()` the abridged layout conversation worked like this:

- Background: Hey text, you can have the whole screen – how much of that do you want?
- Text: I need X by Y points; I don’t need the rest.
- Background: OK. Hey, Color.red: you can have X by Y points – how much of that do you want?
- Color.red: I don’t care; I’m layout neutral, so X by Y points sounds good to me.

The second interesting side effect is one we faced earlier: if we use `frame()` on an image that isn’t resizable, we get a larger frame without the image inside changing size. This might have been confusing before, but it makes absolute sense once you think about the frame as being the parent of the image:

- `ContentView` offers the frame the whole screen.
- The frame reports back that it wants 300x300.
- The frame then asks the image inside it what size it wants.
- The image, not being resizable, reports back a fixed size of 64x64 (for example).
- The frame then positions that image in the center of itself.

When you listen to Apple’s own SwiftUI engineers talk about modifiers, you’ll hear them refer them to as views – “the frame view”, “the background view”, and so on. I think that’s a great mental model to help understand exactly what’s going on: applying modifiers creates new views rather than just modifying existing views in-place.

:::

### Alignment and alignment guides

::: details Alignment and alignment guides

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI - Day 92 - Alignment and alignment guides",
  "desc": "Alignment and alignment guides",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/alignment-and-alignment-guides",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

<VidStack src="youtube/4z99a_dQ0lc"/>

SwiftUI gives us a number of valuable ways of controlling the way views are aligned, and I want to walk you through each of them so you can see them in action.

The simplest alignment option is to use the `alignment` parameter of a `frame()` modifier. Remember, a text view always uses the exact width and height required to show its text, but when we place a frame around it that can be any size. As the parent doesn’t have a say in the final size of the child, code like this will create a 300x300 frame with a smaller text view centered inside it:

```swift
Text("Live long and prosper")
    .frame(width: 300, height: 300)
```

If you don’t want the text to be centered, use the `alignment` parameter of the `frame()`. For example, this code places the view in the top-left corner when running on a left-to-right environment

```swift
    .frame(width: 300, height: 300, alignment: .topLeading)
```

You can then use `offset(x:y:)` to move the text around inside that frame.

The next option up is to use the `alignment` parameter of a stack. For example, here are four text views of varying sizes arranged in a `HStack`:

```swift
HStack {
    Text("Live")
        .font(.caption)
    Text("long")
    Text("and")
        .font(.title)
    Text("prosper")
        .font(.largeTitle)
}
```

We haven’t specified an alignment there, so they will be centered by default. That doesn’t look great, so you might think to align them all to one edge to get a neater line, like this:

```swift
HStack(alignment: .bottom) {
```

However, that also looks bad: because each of the text views has a different size, they also have a different _baseline_ – that’s the name for where letters such as “abcde” sit on a line, which excludes letters that go below the line such as “gjpy”. As a result, the bottom of the small text sits lower than the bottom of the bigger text.

Fortunately, SwiftUI has two special alignments that align text on the baseline of either the first child or the last child. This will cause all views in a stack to be aligned on a single unified baseline, regardless of their font:

```swift
HStack(alignment: .lastTextBaseline) {
```

Moving on, for more fine-grained control we can customize what “alignment” means for each individual view. To get a really good idea of how this works we’re going to start with this code:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        VStack(alignment: .leading) {
            Text("Hello, world!")
            Text("This is a longer line of text")
        }
        .background(.red)
        .frame(width: 400, height: 400)
        .background(.blue)
    }
```

When that runs you’ll see the `VStack` sits tightly around its two text views with a red background. The two text views have different lengths, but because we used the `.leading` alignment they will both be aligned to their left edge in a left-to-right environment. Outside of that there’s a larger frame that has a blue background. Because the frame is larger than the `VStack`, the `VStack` is centered in the middle.

Now, when the `VStack` comes to aligning each of those text views, it asks them to provide their leading edge. By default this is obvious: it uses either the left or right edge of the view, depending on the system language. But what if we wanted to change that – what if we wanted to make one view have a custom alignment?

SwiftUI provides us with the `alignmentGuide()` modifier for just this purpose. This takes two parameters: the guide we want to change, and a closure that returns a new alignment. The closure is given a `ViewDimensions` object that contains the width and height of its view, along with the ability to read its various edges.

By default, the `.leading` alignment guide for a view is its leading alignment guide – I know that sounds obvious, but its effectively equivalent to this:

```swift
VStack(alignment: .leading) {
    Text("Hello, world!")
        .alignmentGuide(.leading) { d in d[.leading] }
    Text("This is a longer line of text")
}
```

We could rewrite that alignment guide to use the view’s _trailing_ edge for its leading alignment guide, like this:

```swift
VStack(alignment: .leading) {
    Text("Hello, world!")
        .alignmentGuide(.leading) { d in d[.trailing] }
    Text("This is a longer line of text")
}
```

And now you’ll see why I added colors: the first text view will move to the left so that its right edge sits directly above the left edge of the view below, the `VStack` will expand to contain it, and the whole thing will still be centered within the blue frame.

This result is _different_ from using the `offset()` modifier: if you offset a text its original dimensions don’t actually change, even though the resulting view is rendered in a different location. If we had offset the first text view rather than changing its alignment guide, the `VStack` wouldn’t expand to contain it.

Although the alignment guide closure is passed your view’s dimensions, you don’t need to use them if you don’t want to – you can send back a hard-coded number, or create some other calculation. For example, this creates a tiered effect for 10 text views by multiplying their position by -10:

```swift
var body: some View {
    VStack(alignment: .leading) {
        ForEach(0..<10) { position in
            Text("Number \(position)")
                .alignmentGuide(.leading) { _ in Double(position) * -10 }
        }
    }
    .background(.red)
    .frame(width: 400, height: 400)
    .background(.blue)
}
```

For _complete_ control over your alignment guides you need to create a custom alignment guide. And I think _that_ deserves a mini chapter all of its own…

:::

### How to create a custom alignment guide

::: details How to create a custom alignment guide

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI - Day 92 - How to create a custom alignment guide",
  "desc": "How to create a custom alignment guide",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/how-to-create-a-custom-alignment-guide",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

<VidStack src="youtube/W0dsEJJ-Eh4"/>

SwiftUI gives us alignment guides for the various edges of our views (`.leading`, `.trailing`, `.top`, and so on) plus `.center` and two baseline options to help with text alignment. However, none of these work well when you’re working with views that are split across disparate views – if you have to make two views aligned the same when they are in entirely different parts of your user interface.

To fix this, SwiftUI lets us create custom alignment guides, and use those guides in views across our UI. It doesn’t matter what comes before or after these views; they will still line up.

For example, here’s a layout that shows my Twitter account name and my profile picture on the left, and on the right shows “Full name:” plus “Paul Hudson” in a large font:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        HStack {
            VStack {
                Text("@twostraws")
                Image(.paulHudson)
                    .resizable()
                    .frame(width: 64, height: 64)
            }

            VStack {
                Text("Full name:")
                Text("PAUL HUDSON")
                    .font(.largeTitle)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

If you want “@twostraws” and “Paul Hudson” to be vertically aligned together, you’ll have a hard time right now. The horizontal stack contains two vertical stacks inside it, so there’s no built-in way to get the alignment you want – things like `HStack(alignment: .top)` just won’t come close.

To fix this we need to define a custom layout guide. This should be an extension on either `VerticalAlignment` or `HorizontalAlignment`, and be a custom type that conforms to the `AlignmentID` protocol.

When I say “custom type” you might be thinking of a struct, but it’s actually a good idea to implement this as an enum instead as I’ll explain shortly. The `AlignmentID` protocol has only one requirement, which is that the conforming type must provide a static `defaultValue(in:)` method that accepts a `ViewDimensions` object and returns a `CGFloat` specifying how a view should be aligned if it doesn’t have an `alignmentGuide()` modifier. You’ll be given the existing `ViewDimensions` object for the view, so you can either pick one of those for your default or use a hard-coded value.

Let’s write out the code so you can see how it looks:

```swift
extension VerticalAlignment {
    struct MidAccountAndName: AlignmentID {
        static func defaultValue(in context: ViewDimensions) -> CGFloat {
            context[.top]
        }
    }

    static let midAccountAndName = VerticalAlignment(MidAccountAndName.self)
}
```

You can see I’ve used the `.top` view dimension by default, and I’ve also created a static constant called `midAccountAndName` to make the custom alignment easier to use.

Now, I mentioned that using an enum is preferable to a struct, and here’s why: we just created a new struct called `MidAccountAndName`, which means we could (if we wanted) create an instance of that struct even though doing so doesn’t make sense because it doesn’t have any functionality. If you replace `struct MidAccountAndName` with `enum MidAccountAndName` then you _can’t_ make an instance of it any more – it becomes clearer that this thing exists only to house some functionality.

Regardless of whether you choose an enum or a struct, its usage stays the same: set it as the alignment for your stack, then use `alignmentGuide()` to activate it on any views you want to align together. This is only a _guide_: it helps you align views along a single line, but doesn’t say _how_ they should be aligned. This means you still need to provide the closure to `alignmentGuide()` that positions the views along that guide as you want.

For example, we could update our Twitter code to use `.midAccountAndName`, then tell the account and name to use their center position for the guide. To be clear, that means “align these two views so their centers are both on the `.midAccountAndName` guide”.

Here’s how that looks in code:

```swift
HStack(alignment: .midAccountAndName) {
    VStack {
        Text("@twostraws")
            .alignmentGuide(.midAccountAndName) { d in d[VerticalAlignment.center] }
        Image(.paulHudson)
            .resizable()
            .frame(width: 64, height: 64)
    }

    VStack {
        Text("Full name:")
        Text("PAUL HUDSON")
            .alignmentGuide(.midAccountAndName) { d in d[VerticalAlignment.center] }
            .font(.largeTitle)
    }
}
```

That will make sure they are vertically aligned regardless of what comes before or after. I suggest you try adding some more text views before and after our examples – SwiftUI will reposition everything to make sure the two we aligned stay that way.

:::

### Absolute positioning for SwiftUI views

::: details Absolute positioning for SwiftUI views

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI - Day 92 - Absolute positioning for SwiftUI views",
  "desc": "Absolute positioning for SwiftUI views",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/absolute-positioning-for-swiftui-views",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

<VidStack src="youtube/Q4CnkZWjDUc"/>

SwiftUI gives us two ways of positioning views: absolute positions using `position()`, and relative positions using `offset()`. They might seem similar, but once you understand how SwiftUI places views inside frames the underlying differences between `position()` and `offset()` become clearer.

A simple SwiftUI view looks like this:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, world!")
    }
}
```

SwiftUI offers the full available space to `ContentView`, which in turn passes it on to the text view. The text view automatically uses only as much as space as its text needs, so it passes that back up to `ContentView`, which is always and exactly the same size as its `body` (so it directly fits around the text). As a result, SwiftUI centers `ContentView` in the available space, which from a user’s perspective is what places the text in the center.

If you want to absolutely position a SwiftUI view you should use the `position()` modifier like this:

```swift
Text("Hello, world!")
    .position(x: 100, y: 100)
```

That will position the text view at x:100 y:100 within its parent. Now, to _really_ see what’s happening here I want you to add a background color:

```swift
Text("Hello, world!")
    .background(.red)
    .position(x: 100, y: 100)
```

You’ll see the text has a red background tightly fitted around it. Now try moving the `background()` modifier below the `position()` modifier, like this:

```swift
Text("Hello, world!")
    .position(x: 100, y: 100)
    .background(.red)
```

Now you’ll see the text is in the same location, but the whole safe area is colored red.

To understand what’s happening here you need to remember the three step layout process of SwiftUI:

1. A parent view proposes a size for its child.
2. Based on that information, the child then chooses its own size and the parent _must_ respect that choice.
3. The parent then positions the child in its coordinate space.

So, the parent is responsible for positioning the child, not the child. This causes a problem, because we’ve just told our text view to be at an exact position – how can SwiftUI resolve this?

The answer to this is also why our `background()` color made the whole safe area red: when we use `position()` we get back a new view that takes up all available space, so it can position its child (the text) at the correct location.

When we use text, position, then background the position will take up all available space so it can position its text correctly, then the background will use that size for itself. When we use text, background, then position, the background will use the text size for its size, then the position will take up all available space and place the background in the correct location.

When discussing the `offset()` modifier earlier, I said “if you offset some text its original dimensions don’t actually change, even though the resulting view is rendered in a different location.” With that in mind, try running this code:

```swift
var body: some View {
    Text("Hello, world!")
        .offset(x: 100, y: 100)
        .background(.red)
}
```

You’ll see the text appears in one place and the background in another. I’m going to explain why that is, but first I want you to think about it yourself because if you understand that _then_ you really understand how SwiftUI’s layout system works.

When we use the `offset()` modifier, we’re changing the location where a view should be rendered without actually changing its underlying geometry. This means when we apply `background()` afterwards it uses the original position of the text, _not_ its offset. If you move the modifier order so that `background()` comes before `offset()` then things work more like you might have expected, showing once again that modifier order matters.

:::

---

<TagLinks />