---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 94
description: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 94
category:
  - 🕊️Swift
tag: 
  - crashcourse
  - paul-hudson
  - swift
  - swiftui
  - hacking-with-swift
  - xcode
  - appstore
head:
  - - meta:
    - property: og:title
      content: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 94
    - property: og:description
      content: Day 94
    - property: og:url
      content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift/100-days-of-swiftui/94.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI – Day 94",
  "desc": "Project 18, part 3",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/100/swiftui/94",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

## Project 18, part 3

Are you ready to wrap up our final technique project? I hope so, because you’ve got another review to complete, plus three fresh challenges to take on. I’ll warn you now: the challenges all involve `GeometryReader`, because it will force you to think clearly about the way frames for each view are calculated, and how they can be used to create interesting effects.

I realize `GeometryReader` can really make your head spin, but the only way you’re going to learn to be comfortable with – to use it _effectively_ is to practice, practice, and practice some more.

I’ve quoted Amy Morin before, but I want to do it one last time today. She said, “the greatest things in life tend to happen outside our comfort zones, and doubting your ability to step outside of your comfort zone will keep you stuck.” So, make today the day you step out of your comfort zone and make `GeometryReader` dance to _your_ tune!

__Today you should work through the wrap up chapter for project 18, complete its review, then work through all three of its challenges.__

### Layout and geometry: Wrap up

::: details Layout and geometry: Wrap up

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of SwiftUI – Day 94 - Layout and geometry: Wrap up",
  "desc": "Layout and geometry: Wrap up",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/layout-and-geometry-wrap-up",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(54,94,226,0.2)"
}
```

I hope this smaller technique project proved a welcome break after our long app projects, but I hope even more that you’re really starting to have a good mental model of how SwiftUI’s layout system works. That three step layout system might sound _simple_, but it takes time to fully understand the ramifications it has.

As for `GeometryReader`, it’s one of those things you can get by perfectly fine without even thinking about, and that’s fine. But sometimes – just _sometimes_ – you need a little extra power that you can't get from container relative frames or other SwiftUI options, and that's where `GeometryReader` can come to the rescue.

#### Review what you learned

Anyone can sit through a tutorial, but it takes actual work to remember what was taught. It’s my job to make sure you take as much from these tutorials as possible, so I’ve prepared a short review to help you check your learning.

[Click here to review what you learned in this project.][layout-and-geometry]

#### Challenge

One of the best ways to learn is to write your own code as often as possible, so here are three challenges for you to complete to experiment with your knowledge of `GeometryReader`.

First, put your `ContentView` back to the spinning color rows example we had:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    let colors: [Color] = [.red, .green, .blue, .orange, .pink, .purple, .yellow]

    var body: some View {
        GeometryReader { fullView in
            ScrollView(.vertical) {
                ForEach(0..<50) { index in
                    GeometryReader { proxy in
                        Text("Row #\(index)")
                            .font(.title)
                            .frame(maxWidth: .infinity)
                            .background(colors[index % 7])
                            .rotation3DEffect(.degrees(proxy.frame(in: .global).minY - fullView.size.height / 2) / 5, axis: (x: 0, y: 1, z: 0))
                    }
                    .frame(height: 40)
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

With that done:

1. Make views near the top of the scroll view fade out to 0 opacity – I would suggest starting at about 200 points from the top.
2. Make views adjust their scale depending on their vertical position, with views near the bottom being large and views near the top being small. I would suggest going no smaller than 50% of the regular size.
3. For a real challenge make the views change color as you scroll. For the best effect, you should create colors using the `Color(hue:saturation:brightness:)` initializer, feeding in varying values for the hue.

Each of those will require a little trial and error from you to find values that work well. Regardless, you should use `max()` to handle the scaling so that views don’t go smaller than half their size, and use `min()` with the hue so that hue values don’t go beyond 1.0.

:::

:: info Layout and geometry: Wrap up - Additional

[Review for Project 18: Layout and geometry][layout-and-geometry]

:::

---

<TagLinks />

[layout-and-geometry]: https://www.hackingwithswift.com/review/ios-swiftui/layout-and-geometry