---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 76
description: 100 Days of Swift > Day 76
category:
  - Swift
tag: 
  - crashcourse
  - paul-hudson
  - swift
  - hacking-with-swift
  - xcode
  - appstore
head:
  - - meta:
    - property: og:title
      content: 100 Days of Swift > Day 76
    - property: og:description
      content: Day 76
    - property: og:url
      content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift/100-days-of-swift/76.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of Swift - Day 76",
  "desc": "Project 22, part two",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/100/76",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(213,52,58,0.2)"
}
```

## Project 22, part two

This is one of those projects that unleashes a massive range of possibilities if you stop to think for a moment. Almost any physical location – from an office to a warehouse to a school to a museum – can benefit from triggering behaviors on the user’s device as they move around, so the real question is: what are you going to do with this technology?

Mo Farah – multiple-time British Olympic gold medallist – said “if you dream and have the ambition and want to work hard, then you can achieve.” Today is day 76 so you can clearly work hard, and I hope I’ve planted the dream of something big in your head – all that remains is your ambition to bring about that goal based on what you know.

And before you start doubting yourself, think about it: at this point you already know large parts of UIKit and SpriteKit, you can fetch and parse data from the internet using `Codable`, you can mark locations on maps, read from the camera, create animations, and more – the range of apps you can build is _huge_ if you put your mind to it.

__Today you should work through the wrap up chapter for project 22, complete its review, then work through all three of its challenges.__

### Wrap up

::: details Wrap up

```component VPCard
{
  "title": "100 Days of Swift - Day 76 - Wrap up",
  "desc": "Wrap up",
  "link": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/read/22/4/wrap-up",
  "logo": "https://www.hackingwithswift.com/favicon-96x96.png",
  "background": "rgba(213,52,58,0.2)"
}
```

<VidStack src="youtube/RJXC2wv8vQQ" />

Working with iBeacon locations is different from working with maps. The technology is often called _micro-location_ because it can tell the difference between a few centimeters and a meter or more. Plus it works inside, which is somewhere GPS continues to be poor, and understandably.

What I like about iBeacons is their subtlety: hardware beacons are almost invisibly small, yet provide the ability for apps to respond to a user’s precise location – you can now make apps for museums, galleries, stores, schools, warehouses, and more, and it took less than 30 minutes.

#### Review what you learned

Anyone can sit through a tutorial, but it takes actual work to remember what was taught. It’s my job to make sure you take as much from these tutorials as possible, so I’ve prepared a short review to help you check your learning.

[Click here to review what you learned in project 22.][project-22-detect-a-beacon]

#### Challenge

One of the best ways to learn is to write your own code as often as possible, so here are three ways you should try your new knowledge to make sure you fully understand what’s going on:

1. Write code that shows a `UIAlertController` when your beacon is first detected. Make sure you set a Boolean to say the alert has been shown, so it doesn’t keep appearing.
2. Go through two or three other iBeacons in the Detect Beacon app and add their UUIDs to your app, then register all of them with iOS. Now add a second label to the app that shows new text depending on which beacon was located.
3. Add a circle to your view, then use animation to scale it up and down depending on the distance from the beacon – try 0.001 for unknown, 0.25 for far, 0.5 for near, and 1.0 for immediate. You can make the circle by adding an image, or by creating a view that’s 256 wide by 256 high then setting its `layer.cornerRadius` to 128 so that it’s round.

:::

::: info Wrap up - Additional

[Review for Project 22: Detect-a-Beacon][project-22-detect-a-beacon]

:::

That’s another project finished, and one that opens a whole new world of micro-location possibilities – share your progress with the world!

---

<TagLinks />

[project-22-detect-a-beacon]: https://www.hackingwithswift.com/review/hws/project-22-detect-a-beacon