---
lang: ko-KR
title: 01. 도입
description: Beej의 네트워크 프로그래밍 안내서 - Kotest > 01. 도입
category:
  - C
tag: 
  - crashcourse
  - c
  - network
  - socket
head:
  - - meta:
    - property: og:title
      content: Beej의 네트워크 프로그래밍 안내서 - Kotest > 01. 도입
    - property: og:description
      content: 01. 도입
    - property: og:url
      content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/cpp/beejs-guide-to-network-programming/01.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

[[toc]]

---

<SiteInfo
  name="1 Intro"
  desc="Beej's Guide to Network Programming"
  url="https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/html/split-wide/intro.html#intro"
  logo="https://beej.us/guide/favicon.gif"
  preview="https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/bgnetcover.png"/>

Hey! Socket programming got you down? Is this stuff just a little too difficult to figure out from the man pages? You want to do cool Internet programming, but you don’t have time to wade through a gob of `struct`s trying to figure out if you have to call `bind()` before you `connect()`, etc., etc.

Well, guess what! I’ve already done this nasty business, and I’m dying to share the information with everyone! You’ve come to the right place. This document should give the average competent C programmer the edge s/he needs to get a grip on this networking noise.

And check it out: I’ve finally caught up with the future (just in the nick of time, too!) and have updated the Guide for IPv6! Enjoy!

---

## Audience

This document has been written as a tutorial, not a complete reference. It is probably at its best when read by individuals who are just starting out with socket programming and are looking for a foothold. It is certainly not the *complete and total* guide to sockets programming, by any means.

Hopefully, though, it’ll be just enough for those man pages to start making sense…

---

## Platform and Compiler

The code contained within this document was compiled on a Linux PC using Gnu’s `gcc` compiler. It should, however, build on just about any platform that uses `gcc`. Naturally, this doesn’t apply if you’re programming for Windows—see the [section on Windows programming](#note-for-windows-programmers), below.

---

## Official Homepage and Books For Sale

This official location of this document is:

- [<FontIcon icon="fas fa-globe"/>https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/](https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/)

There you will also find example code and translations of the guide into various languages.

To buy nicely bound print copies (some call them “books”), visit:

- [<FontIcon icon="fas fa-globe"/>https://beej.us/guide/url/bgbuy](https://beej.us/guide/url/bgbuy)

I’ll appreciate the purchase because it helps sustain my document-writing lifestyle!

---

## Note for Solaris/SunOS Programmers

---

## Note for Windows Programmers

---

## Email Policy

---

## Mirroring

---

## Note for Translators

---

## Copyright, Distribution, and Legal

---

## Dedication

---

## Publishing Information

This book is written in Markdown using the vim editor on an Arch Linux box loaded with GNU tools. The cover “art” and diagrams are produced with Inkscape. The Markdown is converted to HTML and LaTex/PDF by Python, Pandoc and XeLaTeX, using Liberation fonts. The toolchain is composed of 100% Free and Open Source Software.

---
